---
title: "Stop looking at me"
slug: "stop-looking"
pubDate: 2022-09-17
ordering: 1
tags: ["fiction", "social-interaction", "unfalsifiable"]
---

“<span class="small-caps">Stop it</span>,” she said.

Another person at the bus stop had full-body tattoos and a cigarette, and I registered that she was speaking directly to me.

“Stop what?”

“You’re looking at me. Silently judging me. For at least the last fifteen seconds.”

I didn’t know how to respond to this, and hesitated a bit. “No, not at all.”

“You know you are. You were laughing. Don’t lie to me. Now stop it.”

<br />

I took a breath. <i> “No, I wasn’t. As proof, I can generate an itemised list of all my thoughts in the last fifteen seconds. And you’ll see that nowhere in there was I looking at you or silently judging you.

“At T-15 seconds I looked up from my phone to check the bus arrival time on the LED screen above you at the end of the bus stop. It said five minutes.

“At T-14 seconds I was staring past the LED screen at the brick-clad building at the end of the block.

“At T-13 seconds, it reminded me of a local cineplex I used to sneak into when I was young.

“At T-12 seconds I reflected on a news story a few years back where two children attempted to sneak into some R-rated movie disguised as ‘a tall person in a trenchcoat’.

“At T-11 seconds I remembered it didn’t work. I chuckled softly to myself. That’s a classic trope.

“At T-10 seconds I wondered where else I’ve seen that trope before. How common was it in real life?

“At T-9 seconds I had the fanciful idea that maybe there are whole Two Kids In A Trenchcoat Conventions, where everybody there is a pair of children, one standing on the other’s shoulders like a totem pole.

“At T-8 seconds I tried to imagine what exactly it was that you’d do at a TKIAT Convention.

“At T-7 seconds it dawned on me that they’d do pretend-adult activities, like acting out business meetings and getting into bars and stuff.

“At T-6 seconds I caught myself. Why business meetings? And what would kids even know of bars? My age was showing. I exhaled a nervous snicker. I needed to get into the mind of a child.

“At T-5 seconds I entertained the notion of infiltrating a TKIAT Convention as a regular adult. That would be doubly ironic. How would I do that?

“At T-4 seconds I decided it would at least involve me walking in a weirdly affected way and lowering my voice to sound like a man.

“At T-3 seconds I prepared to practise doing exactly that, lowering my jaw and tensing up my legs to simulate stilts.

“At T-2 seconds I caught myself again. That would not be appropriate here. I’m a perfectly sensible adult standing at a bus stop with other adults. This is probably where I laughed again.

“At T-1 seconds I began to think about where I might practise silly walking privately.

“And precisely when I started to realise that I might have to wait until all my roommates were asleep is when you interrupted my train of thought,” </i> I did not say.

<br />

Instead I just hung my head in shame.

Five minutes later the bus arrived.

<br />

<div class="commentary">
<i>
Looking back on this piece, I don't think thoughts actually move that fast. But the feeling of being accused of thoughts you have no way of falsifying can be very real, and this piece is a meditation on that sort of thing.
</i>
</div>