---
title: "Momtrepreneur vs. mompreneur"
slug: "momtrepeneur-mompreneur"
pubDate: 2022-02-19
ordering: 1
tags: ["essays", "language", "words", "portmanteaux"]
---

<span class="small-caps">There are two words</span> in the English language that denote a woman who actively balances being a mother and an entrepreneur. One of those words is _momtrepreneur_. The other is _mompreneur_. The time has come to ask ourselves: which is the better portmanteau?

<br />

Points in favour of _momtrepreneur_ and against _mompreneur_.

Both root words (_mom_ and _entrepreneur_) are plainly visible in _momtrepreneur_. It may take a split-second more detective work to recognise _entrepreneur_ from _mompreneur_. As word-blends, _momtrepreneur_ wins on the front of clarity.

In _momtrepreneur_, prosody of both root words are preserved, because _mom_ replaces the stressed syllable _en_ of _entrepreneur_. This is not the case with _mompreneur_. There, _mom_ replaces _entre_, a word-chunk of different (and incompatible) rhythm, and leaves the portmanteau _mompreneur_ with a cadence which feels distinctly off. In short, _momtrepreneur_ scans better.

<br />

Points in favour of _mompreneur_ and against _momtrepreneur_.

_Mompreneur_'s _mpr_ is a more common English consonant cluster than _momtrepreneur_'s _mtr_. Consider natural _mpr_ words like _empress_, _improve_, _comprise_, and _lamprey_, whereas the _mtr_ words which come to mind are artificial mashups like _Amtrak_ and _chemtrail_. This has a sound phonological basis: _m_ and _p_ share a common point of articulation (labial), which differs from that of _n_ and _t_ (alveolar).

To me, _mom_ replacing _en_ in _momtrepreneur_ obliquely suggests that the vowel in _mom_ be nasalised, the better to preserve the inherent Frenchiness. This sparks a needless half-second of internal debate when I come across _momtrepreneur_, which is distracting. This subtle pronunciation ambiguity does not happen to me for _mompreneur_.

<br />

In my considered judgment, _momtrepreneur_ is the better, more felicitous portmanteau, both in text and in speech. I place a high premium not only on the rhythm and scansion of my prose but also on its clarity, and _momtrepreneur_ outperforms _mompreneur_ on both courts.

Both are well attested in the literature, and I consider _mompreneur_ a worthy second. At least they’re not _momneur_, _momeur_, _motrepreneur_, _mopreneur_, or the like.