---
title: "So excited to see you all for next week's holiday party!"
slug: "holiday-party"
pubDate: 2022-12-11
ordering: 1
tags: ["fiction", "social-interaction", "emails", "grace", "bushrang", "arashi", "dina", "madeline", "rooster", "ovul", "sawyer-brook", "west-broad-street", "chicken-tikka-masala-marsala"]
---

<div class="email-metadata">

From: Grace Hellman

To: Arashi Lee, Bushrang Prambikorn, Dina Porter, Madeline Secord, The Rooster, Ovul Wallis

Date: Monday, December 12, 2005, at 6:37 p.m.

Subject: holiday party 12/18

</div>

<br />
	
Hey everyone! So excited to see you all for next week’s holiday party! Just so all the details are in one place:

<br />

WHEN: 12pm, Sunday 12/18

WHERE: my apartment (221B West Broad Street)

WHO: Yourselves! Friends and lovers and family are welcome too

WHAT (to bring): So as I mentioned to a couple of you in person, I’m thinking it can be an informal potluck. You don’t have to bring something for the potluck, but if you can that would be wonderful (just reply in this email thread what you’re bringing so we can avoid duplicates). I’ll be making Chicken Tikka Masala Marsala (my mom’s recipe)

WHY: Holiday parties! Plus I haven’t seen some of you for months and I can’t wait to get you all back together

<br />

See you all soon,

Grace

<br />

<div class="email-metadata">

From: Dina Porter

To: Grace Hellman

Date: Wednesday, December 14, 2005, at 7:53 a.m.

Subject: Re: holiday party 12/18

</div>

<br />

hey Grace, sorry to let you know something came up and I actually don’t think I can make your holiday party. hope you all have a good time!

<br />

<div class="email-metadata">

From: Madeline Secord

To: Grace Hellman

Date: Thursday, December 15, 2005, at 10:11 p.m.

Subject: Re: holiday party 12/18

</div>

<br />

hey, rooster and i are actually flying off to massachusetts on sat so we’re not gonna make it to ur party after all. sorry grace! catch u next year -m

<br />

<div class="email-metadata">

From: Ovul Wallis

To: Grace Hellman

Date: Saturday, December 17, 2005, at 11:50 a.m.

Subject: Re: holiday party 12/18

</div>

<br />

Sorry Grace, my mom had an emergency last night so I’m with her in the hospital right now and it looks like it’ll be a few days before I can make it back to Sawyer Brook

<br />

<div class="email-metadata">

From: Bushrang Prambikorn

To: Grace Hellman

Date: Saturday, December 17, 2005, at 8:21 p.m.

Subject: Re: holiday party 12/18

</div>

<br />

Hey Grace,

So sorry to have to cancel on you at the last minute, but I had a skiing accident this afternoon and I’m afraid I won’t be back in town in time for the party. Give everyone my best wishes, and I’ll see you around soon?

Best,

Bushrang

<br />

<div class="email-metadata">

From: Arashi Lee

To: Grace Hellman, Bushrang Prambikorn, Dina Porter, Madeline Secord, The Rooster, Ovul Wallis

Date: Sunday, December 18, 2005, at 9:15 a.m.

Subject: Re: holiday party 12/18

</div>

<br />

hey GRace sorry I didn’t get back to you (long story, benen busy) but I’ll be bringing a salad today! lookin gforward to seeing everyone there!
