---
title: "The inner workings of my mind"
slug: "mind-inner-workings"
pubDate: 2022-08-19
ordering: 1
tags: ["essays", "confessions", "celebrities", "jane-krakowski", "movies", "television"]
---

<span class="small-caps">Ladies and gentlemen, my dearest friends</span>: the inner workings of my mind.

I’m listening to “I Always, Always, Never Get My Man”, the Countess’s song from the _Schmigadoon!_ cast album (soundtrack? soundtrack.), when a thought occurs to me: I should look up this actress.

So I pull up Google and type _Jane Krasinski_.

Google gives me results for did you mean: _Jane Krakowski_? Yes! Sorry! I did mean _Jane Krakowski_. So I scroll down and let my finger hover over the link to her Wikipedia article when I see that the minimised search bar at the top of my screen still says _Jane Krasinski_ and I’m shot with a pang of guilt. _I misremembered your name, Jane_, I think, _and that was very disrespectful of me, and I’m going to do my penance by figuring out why_.

It must have been some other celebrity with a similar-sounding name. Something starting with a _K_ and ending in an _insky_. But who?

Oh, it must be that professor-turned-terrorist guy. Tom? Tom Kozc—wait no, Ted! Ted Kozcinsky. Koczinsky. I type _Ted Koczinsky_ into Google.

Google returns me results for _Ted Kaczynski_, the Unabomber. Oops, I guess I butchered your name too. This one doesn’t weigh as heavily on me, though, because you’re, like, a criminal. (I feel uneasy thinking this, though; do you forfeit the dignity of people getting your name right when you become a criminal? Is it in good faith to butcher the names of bad people? Erm, file this debate away for later.) But I do have a nagging feeling that Ted was not the _inski_ I was thinking of when I typed Jane _Krasinski_, and that makes me uneasy.

Wait! It’s that guy! He’s like, someone’s husband. She’s like a famous actress from the 2010s and I’ve seen her starring in movies (musicals?), and he’s her husband and they’re like super-cute together when I see them on Instagram or whatnot. Facebook. If I can remember her name then I can figure out his. _Em_-something. Not Emma Stone. Not Watson. Emma … it’s a one-syllable surname. Probably also an English word. Blunt. Emma Blunt—no, Emily! Emily Blunt! And her husband’s name is—

_John Krasinski_. That’s it. John Krasinski, Jane Krakowski. _Jane Krasinski_. Now my sin is at least justified, right? Sometimes celebrities have similar names. Happens all the time.

My curiosity about the glitch in my thought processes having been duly sated, I get back to work and completely forget to read up on Jane Krakowski. At least until I pick up my phone again fifteen minutes later.