---
title: "Review: Fisher-Price 4-in-1 COVID Antigen Test Toy"
slug: "fisher-price-covid"
pubDate: 2022-06-07
ordering: 1
tags: ["fiction", "covid", "review"]
---

<span class="small-caps">Okay, what demented soul</span> in Fisher-Price’s product development department dreamt this one up?

Needless to say, I was not impressed with this product. I bought it for my 1-year-old daughter, and you’d think that 1-year-olds are not that hard to impress, but boy, she was not impressed either.

This product does not succeed at being either a covid test or a children’s toy. The nasal swab is just a plastic colored wand-like tube, the dropper is two plastic tubes which fit together, and the test card is a big tile that has a covid test result picture printed on it (negative, in case you were wondering). These components are just big enough to avoid being classified as choking hazards, so you can’t stick the swab into your nose. They’re not made to last—my daughter left them with some ugly dents in her first (and only) encounter with them. I also do not know why Fisher-Price saw fit to include a plastic coronavirus ball in the set, but that didn’t last long either. And the less said about the instruction manual and its vaguely insulting prose, the better. Its only saving grace is that it does well as a “joke gift”—I also bought one for my grandfather and the incredulous look on his face as he unwrapped the packaging was priceless.

I give the Fisher-Price COVID 4-in-1 Antigen Test Toy one and a half stars.