---
title: "Why is this man walking behind me?"
slug: "walking-behind-me"
pubDate: 2022-10-31
ordering: 1
tags: ["fiction", "social-interaction", "sidewalk"]
---

<span class="small-caps">Why is this man</span> walking behind me? He’s been behind me for the past several blocks. Is he pursuing me?

<br />

_Why is the woman in front of me walking so slow? She’s been in front of me for the past several blocks. Does she know how slow she’s walking?_

<br />

Should I run? Or at least walk faster? But that would entail acknowledging his existence, which would make things uncomfortable. Not acknowledging his existence is an advantage I can still pull off, and I’d prefer not to pierce that social cover if I can help it.

<br />

_Should I try to pass her? But that would entail approaching her from behind—I’d have to give enough clearance to make the passing non-threatening, and these sidewalks are too narrow for that._

<br />

What if he’s not dangerous at all? Do I really want to betray my fear that he’s dangerous? But then again what if he is dangerous, senses my fear, reacts badly to that, and starts walking even faster to catch up to me?

<br />

_What if I slow down, put more distance between her and me? Then I won’t make it to the office on time. Same if I tried to take a side street. Oh, how awkward! I hope she turns a corner soon._

<br />

As long as I just keep walking at this same pace, I can maintain this delicate ambiguity and probably make it to the office without this situation collapsing into a social disaster. And besides, I’ve got my pepper spray. Just breathe. Ballantine Street’s only five more blocks away.

<br />

_As long as she doesn’t slow down too much, I can still keep this pace and make my meeting. Otherwise I’m trapped ten feet behind her by a weird pathological combination of social forces. Whatever. Ballantine Street’s only five more blocks away._