---
title: "Are press kits an inevitable feature of the Universe?"
slug: "press-kits"
pubDate: 2022-04-25
ordering: 1
tags: ["essays", "speculation"]
---

<span class="small-caps">Are press kits</span> an inevitable feature of the Universe?

My impression of how press kits came to be is as follows. At some point during the history of the Universe, life evolved inexplicably out of the interactions of inorganic substances. Unicellular life gave way to multicellular organisms during the Cambrian era, and eventually organisms coalesced into herds and tribes and societies. Within societies, individuals formed different sub-groups for the purposes of achieving what none of them could achieve alone—teams, guilds, associations, companies. For example, driven by individuals’ desires to know what is going on within the rest of society, some individuals took charge of the task of disseminating information about current events to the rest of society—in essence, they were a news organisation. Other companies kept tight control of what information they leak to news organisations, only leaking select information about their products at special times. So they adopted a practice of preparing discrete packages of information for news organisations to distribute to the wider public—in essence, press kits.

Now in that paragraph there are a _lot_ of assumptions. Will the Universe inevitably develop life? Will life always give rise to societies? And so forth. But if all of those assumptions hold true, then given sufficient time, the Universe will develop press kits. I feel weird saying that.

Are mortgages an inevitable feature of the Universe? Insurance fraud? Healing crystals? Second-hand embarrassment? Affirmative action? Link rot? Block booking? Crossword puzzles? The temperance movement? Area codes? Credentialism? Nuclear deterrence? Baby races? Listicles? Hip hop? Out-of-network providers?
