---
title: "Co-cousins and other missing genealogical terms"
slug: "co-cousins"
pubDate: 2022-04-23
ordering: 1
tags: ["essays", "genealogy", "words"]
---

<span class="small-caps">From</span> the Department of There Ought To Be A Word For That.

When Arabella is Brenna’s cousin and Brenna is Carolyn’s cousin, what are Arabella and Carolyn? They’re not related, let’s say. Let’s suppose Arabella’s mum is Brenna’s mum’s sister, and Carolyn’s mum is Brenna’s dad’s sister. Let’s also assume no inbreeding. Then Arabella and Carolyn share no ancestors at all, so by definition they’re not cousins of any degree. (Except in the trivial sense wherein everyone is related and they might be, like, 34th cousins.)

I can’t remember where this term came up, but I like _co-cousins_. Arabella and Carolyn are _co-cousins_. They share Brenna as a cousin. To Brenna, they are both cousins.

Why do I think _co-cousins_ ought to be a word? I know several of my _co-cousins_ pretty well. In fact, I probably saw them more often than some of my actual blood-related cousins, due to the way my relatives are networked geographically. For technical reasons I can’t refer to them as cousins (even though for the longest time I thought they counted as cousins!), but I find referring to them as Unrelated Friends of the Family to be unsatisfying. Of course they’re related, just to other members of the family tree!

(It’s weird that _X is related to Y_ is not transitive. Arabella is related to Brenna, and Brenna is related to Carolyn, but Arabella is not related to Carolyn.)

So this kind of indirect familial relation deserves a name. I haven’t heard any better names, so _co-cousin_ it shall be.

<br />

Other genealogical terms that I made up and I am fond of: _cousin cohort_ (the set of all of someone’s grandchildren), _second cousin squadron_ (the set of all of someone’s great-grandchildren), and _third cousin tribe_ (the set of all of someone’s great-great-grandchildren).

I am a member of two cousin cohorts: one with my maternal cousins, corresponding to my maternal grandparents, and one with my paternal cousins, corresponding to my paternal grandparents.

Oh gosh. I hope I will have grandchildren someday.