---
title: "Graf"
slug: "graf"
pubDate: 2022-04-06
ordering: 1
tags: ["essays", "fiction", "language", "words", "grammar", "pronunciation", "annette", "julia", "jessamyn", "russet-star", "lambent-university"]
---

<span class="small-caps">It’s a question</span> we all ask ourselves eventually: how do you abbreviate the word _paragraph_?

<br />

_Par_? But pronounced _pair_, of course? This doesn’t sound compelling to me.

“I need to finish another _par_ of this copy before lunch.”

I think what it suffers from is the same plight that an abbreviation of _character_ suffers from. I see _char_ all the time in code because it’s a very popular data-type. The pronunciation of _char_ is unsettled: _care_? _car_? actual _char_ as in charred broccoli? So it is with _par_. It doesn’t help that _pair_ and _par_ are both English words, not uncommon.

<br />

I’ve seen _para_ around. I think I’ve seen it scribbled in red by writing class TAs on the margins of mediocre student essays.

(Annette was standing in the office doorway. In her hand, her stapled essay was flipped to the second page, and her thumb rested near a messy missive: _2nd para arg??_

“Sorry to bother you,” she began, “I was looking over your feedback and I couldn’t quite read what this word was—is it _para_?”

“Yeah, para,” the TA replied, not looking up. “Paragraph. I was saying your second paragraph was kinda weak, didn’t really get the argument there.”)

In writing _para_ may be understandable, but in speech I’m not sure if _para_ flows well. There’s something about it that makes me think, _this abbreviation was not meant to be read aloud_. Like _IYKYK_ or _POC_.

“I don’t understand what you’re trying to say with this para.”

“Could you insert a para about the glorious history of the Motherland?”

I think it’s the schwa, the unstressed syllable _-a_ that _para_ ends on. It’s as if we abbreviated _helicopter_ to _heli_ (pronounced not _helly_, but something like _hellih_ or _hella_). And when the Brits need to abbreviate the television, they refer to the _telly_, not the _telleh_ or _tella_.

<br />

Lately, Stephen King introduced me to an alternative: _graf_.

<br />

_In expository prose, paragraphs can (and should) be neat and utilitarian. The ideal expository graf contains a topic sentence followed by others which explain or amplify the first._
<div class="quote-attribution">
Stephen King, On Writing
</div>

<br />

My first impression is, hey, I like that! _Graf_ sounds like you’ve been in the trade for something-odd years. It doesn’t have the schwa-ending affliction that plagues _para_, and sounds sort of fun to say. Spoken aloud, it does bear the risk of confusion with its etymological ancestor _graph_, which means something else (or rather, many things else). The _-af_ ending is uncommon in written English, but I suppose _graff_ would be too cumbrous to write out, wouldn’t it.

I looked _graf_ up and it looks like this is actually a _journalism_ shorthand! Google’s search results sport titles like “Hed, dek, lede, graf, tk: live with it” and “The hed, the dek, the lede, and the nut graf.” I knew _lede_ from before, but the rest are new to me. The vaguely dirty-sounding _nut graf_ is apparently just a _nutshell paragraph_, the graf that summarises the article in a nutshell.

So maybe _para_ is the cant of the overworked academic, and _graf_ is the jargon of the overworked journalist? I like the idea of these being two cultures developing their own slang, sequestered from each other. I don’t like shibboleths, except in fiction, so what if _para/graf_ became one?

<br />

(A hypothetical ethnic conflict between Higher Education and the Press. Under cover of night Julia Tan of the Russet _Star_ slinks up to the Lambent University gates but is accosted by two sentries.

“Halt!” the left sentry cries. “Who goes there?”

“Jessamyn Trimble,” Julia fibs, unbreaking. “Department of English.”

The left sentry frowns, as the one on the right whips out a mediocre student essay and points at a paragraph. “Then what’s this?”

“A graf,” says Julia. “Wait, no, it’s a para, a para—”

“Impostor!” both sentries cry in unison. In seconds, campus security descends upon the gate, the glint of moonlight on their service pistols.)

<br />

Anyhow I wonder if I can annoy everybody at once. _Parag. Ragra. Aph._

