---
title: "And what dessert can I get for you, miss?"
slug: "dessert"
pubDate: 2022-05-03
ordering: 1
tags: ["essays", "fiction", "food"]
---

**Matzo** (variously **matzoh**, **matza**, **matzah**) is an unleavened flatbread used in various forms, from matzo balls to matzo bread, in Jewish cuisine. It is kosher for Passover and mentioned several times in the Torah itself.

**Mate** (or **maté**) is a traditional beverage originating from the Guaraní and Tupí peoples of South America. Made by soaking dried holly leaves in hot water and served in a container fashioned from a calabash gourd, it is rich with caffeine and is the national drink of Argentina, Paraguay, and Uruguay.

**Matcha** is a finely ground green tea powder originating from China and traditionally consumed throughout East Asia. The Japanese tea ceremony centres upon the preparation and presentation of matcha tea.

**Mocha** is a variant of coffee which like caffè latte is based on hot milk and espresso, but it also includes chocolate flavouring and sweetener for its distinctive flavour. Its namesake is a city in Yemen which served as a centre of coffee trade in the seventeenth century.

**Mochi** is a rice cake of Japanese origin, where grains of glutinous rice are pounded into a paste and moulded into a shape. Although it is eaten year-round, it is especially associated with the Japanese New Year.

<br />

“And what dessert can I get for you, miss?” she asked me.

“I’d like to try your, erm, your **matzo mate matcha mocha mochi**, please?”

