---
title: "Book Reflection: Last Night in Montreal"
slug: "last-night-in-montreal"
pubDate: 2022-02-23
ordering: 1
tags: ["essays", "books", "book-reflections", "emily-st-john-mandel", "last-night-in-montreal", "the-singer's-gun", "friendships", "social-anxieties"]
---

<div class="content-warning">
<span class="small-caps">Content warning</span>: <i>Spoilers for</i> Last Night in Montreal, The Singer's Gun
</div>

<span class="small-caps">I just finished reading</span> _Last Night in Montreal_, Emily St. John Mandel’s 2009 debut novel. It was beautiful and haunting, finely wrought and elegantly prosed in that singular Emily St. John Mandel way. I could go on with a thousand other book-jacket superlatives, but plenty of book reviewers and critics and bloggers have done that already, and much better than I could. I won’t pretend that this is anything close to a review. Instead I will use this space to log one way her book spoke to me.

Lilia, perhaps the central character of the novel, has a highly unusual upbringing. Abducted by her father at age seven, she spends her childhood drifting across an ever-shifting landscape of dusty American towns with him, forever itinerant, forever in flight from the private detective her mother hired. Even when she tries to settle down, she can’t; she moves endlessly from city to city, leaving a string of lovers in her wake. She can’t remember what it’s like to have a permanent home.

What is it like not to have a home, not to have roots? What is it like to “skate over the surface of the world for your entire life, visiting, leaving, without ever really falling through” (p. 224*)? I am one of the (presumably many) readers who don’t share her flighty peripatetic background. I had a home and a healthy childhood. So why does Lilia’s story compel me so?

I think I do feel itinerant. Not physically, not in the same way that she traverses undreamable distances, never putting down roots in one town, but socially. Replace a map of the United States with a graph of the social network, and a profound kinship with Lilia overcomes me. I know of people who have lifelong friends, who have laid roots in their own special corner of the network, but in my life I have drifted, gathering moss but never settling. The friends I had 16 years ago are completely separate from the friends I had 8 years ago, and both have no relation to the friends I have now. I am acutely aware of how fleeting a human connection can be.

I think I am far from alone here. I think a lot of us are like Lilia when you recast her story in the way of this social-network metaphor.

But perhaps she’s not the best metaphor for me. I do desperately want to find myself a social town to stay sometime; I have no allergies to settling down. Her intentions are more enigmatic than that and I am still processing them. Perhaps I am more like her latest boyfriend, Eli, whose dead-end thesis-writing arty-but-sterile Brooklyn life is upended by her disappearance. I crave human connection dearly, especially in its abrupt absence. Do I crave it enough to chase it across the border into an alien city, lonely and cold and swamped by an alien language, in the scarce hope of getting it back? I don’t know. But sometimes when I contemplate the whole vast fragile web of human connection, with its severed links and unanswered distress calls and ships passing in the night, I am filled with deep and complex sorrows that I can’t articulate but that Emily St. John Mandel captures in her writing.

[BEGIN SPOILER]

My pie-in-the-sky silly fan theory, as if that were at all an appropriate thing to have, is that Lilia’s husband at the end of the book is Anton Waker from _The Singer’s Gun_ (2010). The time and place can be made to work out, so hey, why not?

[END SPOILER]

<br />

*This page-number citation thing is a holdover habit from high school days, but I have no intention of shaking it. It does make my writing a bit more high-school-essay-like, which I’m not sure is a good thing?