---
title: "\"The actor playing me has forgotten their lines.\""
slug: "forgotten-lines"
pubDate: 2022-12-13
ordering: 1
tags: ["essays", "theater", "social-interaction", "phrases", "lauren", "percy", "what-do-you-say"]
---

“_The actor playing me has forgotten their lines._”

I need a new phrase to deploy in situations where I know I’m supposed to say something but I don’t know what. I think this might do the trick.

This phrase would allow me to retire \[deer in headlights\] and “Segmentation fault” as responses; the former’s too awkward and pitiable, the latter’s too computery and in-jokey. This one’s transparent and theatre-flavoured, which I rather fancy these days. Plus it pretends that all the world’s a stage and peels back the whole strings-and-marionettes artifice of it all to suggest that we’re all characters put on by actors instead of actors putting on characters, and I think that’s fun to think about and to make other people think about.

With enough practice I could deploy this line matter-of-factly:

<br />

“What’s a-cookin’, good-lookin’?”

“The actor playing me has forgotten their lines.”

<br />

“Lauren, this is my boyfriend Percy.”

“The actor playing me has forgotten their lines.”

<br />

“Before we end this interview, do you have any questions for me?”

“The actor playing me has forgotten their lines.”

<br />

Actually, maybe I can’t deliver it too straight. That would defeat the I’ve-forgotten-my-lines nature of the line. I’d have to work in a few “ums” and “ahs” in there, and sort of mumble it out in a diffident, barely-articulate word-slurry:

<br />

“Tell me about your life.”

“Um. Uh, sorry. The, uh, actor playing me has forgotten their lines.”

<br />

Yeah. That’s the way to go.
