---
title: "A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte and zinc chromate"
slug: "sunday-zinc-chromate"
pubDate: 2022-09-07
ordering: 1
tags: ["essays", "theater", "art", "sondheim", "seurat", "a-sunday-afternoon-on-the-island-of-la-grande-jatte", "zinc-chromate"]
---

<span class="small-caps">A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte</span> is perhaps Georges Seurat’s most famous painting. A pioneering work of pointillism, millions of tiny dots resolving themselves into a pastoral scene of figures in a park through a trick of colour and light, _A Sunday Afternoon_ hangs in the collection of the Art Institute of Chicago. In 1982 James Lapine and Stephen Sondheim paid it a visit and came up with one of their most celebrated musicals, _Sunday in the Park with George_. In 2022 my best friend paid it a visit and sent me a photo of herself posing with the figures yesterday.

Zinc chromate is a chemical compound with the formula ZnCrO<sub>4</sub>. It is used industrially as a coating over iron or aluminium materials, synthesised in a process developed by the Ford Motor Company in the 1920s. It is also highly toxic and can cause cancer.

<br />

I never really bothered to wonder what _A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte_ and zinc chromate had to do with each other. At least, I never did until to-day, when now my mind is consumed with thoughts of exactly that. One’s a pointillist painting, and one’s a chemical compound.

But on Wikipedia’s article for _A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte_, the Related Articles section at the bottom lists, in order: _Georges Seurat_, _Zinc chromate_, and _Models (painting)_.

And on Wikipedia’s article for zinc chromate, the Related Articles section lists, in order: _A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte_, _Chromate conversion coating_, and _List of inorganic pigments_.

Okay. Does anybody else think that’s strange? I feel that _A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte_ would inspire me to think of a thousand other things more related to it (like _Sunday in the Park with George_, for example) than zinc chromate. Why does zinc chromate claim the No. 2 spot in _A Sunday Afternoon_’s related articles? 

And vice versa. Zinc chromate would inspire me to read about a thousand more chemicals and compounds and industrial processes before it could even suggest a dotty painting.

Is this possibly just a quirk of Wikipedia’s recommendation algorithm? Have the folks at Wikipedia been trying to use neural networks to recommend articles now?

<br />

Ah. Upon further reading, it looks like Seurat used zinc chromate as a yellow pigment in the painting of _A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte_. Fine.

I mean, this still doesn’t sate my confusion as to why zinc chromate is so prominent on the list of _A Sunday Afternoon_’s related articles. It still feels like you have dozens of best friends to choose from but somehow your bank teller ends up being one of your bridesmaids.