---
title: "Musical roads and encyclopaedic writing"
slug: "musical-roads"
pubDate: 2023-02-02
ordering: 1
tags: ["essays", "writing", "music", "wikipedia"]
---

<span class="small-caps">To-day I became acquainted</span> with the idea of a _musical road_. When you drive over a rough patch of road, you’ll feel a rumble. Some clever people found that you could cut grooves into the asphalt in such a way that they would produce vibrations at different pitches when driven over. A musical road is a section of road with strips laid in such a way as to produce a musical tune when you drive over it. There are several musical roads in different countries around the world.

Anyhow. The Wikipedia article for _Musical road_ contains a passage which amuses me, concerning a musical road in France which was supposedly paved over:

<br />

_As of 2022, if one looks at boulevard Laurent and Danielle Casanova near the intersection with Chem. du Pont des Marais via Google Maps’ street view, the rumble strips installed on the road which played the song can still be clearly seen, suggesting that the musical road is still functioning._

<br />

Why does this amuse me? In one unwieldy paragraph you can see one writer’s beautiful struggle with Wikipedia’s guidelines for encyclopaedic writing.

The writer probably saw the preceding paragraph, the one about the French musical road being paved over, and wanted to issue a correction: _Actually, it’s still there!_ Perhaps she lived near it.

Wikipedia has a _No Original Research_ policy. If the writer couldn’t justify that the musical road was still there using a reliable published source, her contribution would be mercilessly deleted. So she had to justify _Actually, it looks like it’s still there_ with some sort of reliable published source.

One problem—she couldn’t find mention of the current state of the road in any reliable published source on the Internet, because it’s really _that_ obscure.

Ah! Google Maps! Google Maps is reliable, is it not? If she could find it on Google Maps, then that would be justification enough, no? Find a good view on Google Maps. _Further, further … stop! This view! It’ll do._ Then she probably drafted something like

<br />

_If you look at boulevard Laurent and Danielle Casanova near the intersection with Chem. du Pont des Marais via Google Maps’ street view, you can still see the rumble strips installed on the road which play the song._

<br />

There’s a well-researched sentence! But hmm. Doesn’t sound encyclopaedic enough. Better change the personal _you_ to an impersonal _one_, and chuck in an _As of 2022_ in there for good measure.

<br />

_**As of 2022**, if **one** looks at boulevard Laurent and Danielle Casanova near the intersection with Chem. du Pont des Marais via Google Maps’ street view, **one** can still see the rumble strips installed on the road which play the song._

<br />

Okay now there are too many <i>one</i>s  and it sounds stilted and noncommittal. Cast it in the past tense to get rid of the second <i>one</i>. Add the clause “suggesting that the musical road is still functioning” so it doesn’t come on too strong.

And now the sentence, a palimpsest of discovery, looks like

<br />

_As of 2022, if one looks at boulevard Laurent and Danielle Casanova near the intersection with Chem. du Pont des Marais via Google Maps’ street view, the rumble strips installed on the road which played the song **can still be clearly seen**, **suggesting that the musical road is still functioning**._

<br />

Which still doesn’t read like a Wikipedia entry, particularly with the remaining _one_ in there, but whatever, it’s getting late, just edit the page and publish.