---
title: "On child development and skill acquisition"
slug: "child-development"
pubDate: 2023-01-15
ordering: 1
tags: ["essays", "age", "growing-up"]
---

<span class="small-caps">In seventh or eighth grade</span>, we had a lesson on child development. I learned the bare basics of when a child develops abilities through the years, from sensory awareness and motor skills to language acquisition and socialisation. And I remember being surprised by the fact that abstract thought doesn’t come along until very late in the process, around the ages of ten or eleven or twelve.

I must have been twelve at the time, going on thirteen. And I had the capacity to think abstractly, but I thought I had always had it, for as long as I could remember. Was there a time when I could not engage in abstract thought? Was that time really just two or three years ago?

I thought about first graders. Ours was a K-8 school, so there were plenty of chances to see lines of first and second graders milling about the hallways. I wondered what they would think if a seventh grader were to tell a first grader, “Did you know you aren’t capable of abstract thought yet?”

How would I feel if I were a first grader and an older kid told me that? In all likelihood I probably would detect that _that kid is mean_ and I might cry or tattle on them to a teacher. But could I wonder, _what is this Abstract Thought of which you speak? How can I do it? Can I learn it soon?_

<br />

I am twenty-five. My friends in their thirties assure me that there are certain truths I can only learn when I am in my thirties. Truths like _When you’re in your twenties, you really don’t know anything_ and _Thirty is the best year, you have enough experience to be grounded but your joints haven’t started aching yet_ and _You really have to be thirty-five to fully understand_ Company. 

And I understand, abstractly, that I can hear them say the words and still not understand viscerally what they mean until I’ve reached their level of cognitive development. Yet still I yearn for a way to short-circuit this process, grow five years more mature in one week or one month, leapfrog over the other twenty-five-year-olds, and reach a point where I no longer feel like I’m behind everyone my age, playing a depressing game of developmental milestone catch-up.

Is this so impossible?
