---
title: "An intentional complication in cordage"
slug: "cordage"
pubDate: 2023-02-16
ordering: 1
tags: ["essays", "wikipedia", "pronunciation", "overthinking"]
---

<span class="small-caps">To-day the Voice In My Head That Reads Things</span> made a very interesting mispronunciation.

The Wikipedia page for Knot begins:

<br />

_A knot is an intentional complication in cordage which may be practical or decorative, or both._

<br />

The Voice In My Head That Reads Things came to the word _cordage_ and pronounced it “cor-DAHZH”. Yep, as if it were French.

_Arbitrage. Découpage. Montage. Corsage. Cordage._

Then I thought, wait, no, that’s just a good old-fashioned perfectly cromulent English word and suffix. “COR-dij”.

_Shortage. Reportage. Cordage._	

What on earth compelled her to pronounce _cordage_ in a Frenchy way?

<br />

Maybe it was that I had previously been steeped in articles about clothes and fashion? And perhaps my mind subconsciously associates fashion with France and with French pronunciations.

Maybe it was that _cordage_, being a link to another Wikipedia article (_Rope_), was rendered in blue? _Cordage_ sitting pretty in a different colour than the surrounding text, my mind registered as a keyword, an unfamiliar word, one that warranted an unfamiliar pronunciation.

Maybe it was the phrase _intentional complication in cordage_? Until I read that phrase I had never thought to describe a knot as an _intentional complication in cordage_, even though, after the fact, I don’t know how I would describe a knot any differently. (“A knot is, well, it’s a knot! I mean, you know what a knot is, right?”) And this unfamiliar but arresting phrase, technical and erudite and sesquipedalian, primed me for an unfamiliar pronunciation.

<br />

I don’t know. But that, folks, is to-day’s example of a very interesting mispronunciation brought to you by the Voice In My Head That Reads Things. An unintentional complication in speakage.