---
title: 'There was an old woman walking in front of me'
slug: "old-woman-walking"
pubDate: 2023-03-09
ordering: 1
tags: ["fiction", "social-interaction", "sidewalk", "awkward"]
---

<span class="small-caps">There was an old woman</span> walking in front of me.

I wanted to pass her.

The sidewalk was narrow.

I did not pass her.

I thought it might be rude to pass her. If I passed her at my own walking speed, she might see me as showing off my youth. It would make her acutely aware of her own age. How unfair that I should flaunt a fleetness of foot that had been lost to her for decades. How inconsiderate.

Instead, I slowed down my pace to match her lumbering gait, roughly ten feet behind her. I cut the length of my stride in half, spaced my steps out by a second longer, placed one foot in front of the other more deliberately. This felt very unnatural to me. To assuage my impatience I pulled out my phone and fidgeted with the apps and tried to be very interested in what was happening on the screen.

I don’t think she noticed me, as I was still behind her. But perhaps she did.

Then I began to worry that it might be rude not to pass her. If she noticed me walking behind her, she might think _What on earth is she doing? That is not how young people walk._ Would she think I was mocking her? Condescending to her pace? And even if she were charitable enough to assume I was trying to be considerate, would she then feel guilty about blocking me? These were not emotions that I wanted her to feel.

I resolved that I would have to pass her.

I reached into my purse, found my AirPods, and wedged them into my ears for good measure. If I appeared to be lost in my own little world, that might give me some social cover. Then I lengthened my stride and quickened my pace, at first subtly, but then noticeably and deliberately. As I approached her, I veered leftward, which took me off the pavement and onto the grass. It was damp from the morning dew.

Then, as I overtook her, I pretended my best not to have noticed her at all.

<br />

<div class="commentary">
<i>
A lot of my writing is lightly fictionalised treatments of my own anxieties
</i>
</div>
