---
title: "Fotografei você na minha Rolleiflex"
slug: "rolleiflex"
pubDate: 2026-01-02
ordering: 1
tags: ["essays", "music", "song-lyrics", "song-reflections", "rolleiflex", "overthinking"]
---

<i>

Fotografei você na minha Rolleiflex

Revelou-se a sua enorme ingratidão

</i>

<div class="quote-attribution">
“Desafinado” (1959).
</div>

<br />

<span class="small-caps"></span>

These immortal lyrics to the bossa nova classic “Desafinado” were penned by Newton Ferreira de Mendonça to Antonio Carlos Jobim’s melody. Two lines with so much to unpack, inexhaustible in meaning, interpretation, and implication. After hearing them recently, I have not been able to stop thinking about them.

Also, I have no idea what they mean.

<br />

Okay. We can start with what they literally mean. The English translations I’ve been able to find seem straightforward enough:

<br />

<i>

I photographed you with my Rolleiflex

It exposed your great ingratitude

</i>

<br />

What’s a _Rolleiflex_? From context it seems to be some sort of camera, and indeed Wikipedia tells us it’s a fancy high-end camera, of German manufacture.

Why a Rolleiflex? What are we to make of the lyricist’s choice of this model? It scans, yes, but it does not rhyme with any other line in the lyric. Hmm. In the work of a first-rate lyricist, every detail is intentional, chosen with great care. And so we probe further into the craft.

Perhaps the detail is intended to particularise the characters—maybe Mendonça is painting the narrator as the kind of high-class cosmopolitan romantics who carry around Rolleiflexes. However, I can’t find any other details in the lyric to corroborate this. The gist of the complete lyric is that the narrator is imploring the addressee, the object of his romantic affection, not to dismiss his* love on account of his out-of-tune (_desafinado_) style of singing. The closest allusion to their class statuses comes perhaps in the first quatrain, which does feature the lines

<br />

<i>

Só privilegiados têm ouvido igual ao seu

Eu possuo apenas o que Deus me deu

</i>

<br />

or, in English translation,

<br />

<i>

Only privileged people having hearing like yours

And I have only the one God gave me

</i>

<br />

but that only serves to characterize the _addressee_ as high-class and cultured, not the narrator, who is implied to be the opposite.

My favourite interpretation is that it is product placement, pure and simple.

I love this. Your mileage may vary, but I find blatant product placement to be <a href='https://www.mcsweeneys.net/articles/great-moments-in-product-placement-poetry'>an art in itself</a>. The more grating the brand insertion, the greater the art. In an ironic way, of course, but it’s the kind of irony I find delicious.

<br />

And then there’s that other line, _Revelou-se a sua enorme ingratidão_. The photograph I took of you—with my trusty Rolleiflex, I hasten to add—exposed how ungrateful you are.

There’s so much to love about this.

There’s the assertion that a photograph can expose the ingratitude of its subject. I don’t know. I’ve kind of assumed for most of my life that this is not something a pic can do. But I’ve also come across the idea that a great photographer’s job is to capture the truth through her work, like how Dorothea Lange’s _Migrant Mother_ speaks countless volumes about the quiet desperation of the Great Depression in a single instant. So maybe a pic can reveal things like that. The jury’s still out.

There’s also the additional implication that the narrator would not have detected the ingratitude, if not for his use of the Rolleiflex. Simply observing her is not enough—it takes a Rolleiflex, that miracle lens, to confirm that genuine ingratitude exists on her part. And this is why you, the listener, ought to run, not walk, to your nearest Rollei vendor and buy a Rolleiflex. In uncertain romantic situations, it can save you a lot of headache!

<br />

I kind of want a Rolleiflex now. And I’m not even a camera person.

<br />
	
*For the purposes of this analysis, the narrator is Antonio Carlos Jobim.